hi today I'll be showing how you can use
the map tiles tool to generate tiles and
objects for your s scroller
game the first thing I like to do when
creating tiles for my side scroller is
to create a
background in this case I want a snowy
landscape with
mountains once I have created my
background image it's time to create
tiles the first thing I like to create
is the
ground uh it's important to remember to
in paint uh where you want the ground to
be I've also recently added a output
method which means that now you can for
example create a a new layer which which
means that your generation will be
separate from the original layer so it's
easy to uh create
um tiles for uh Unity for
example when expanding on your
generation it's good to let the model
see a bit of the previous generation and
then it will just fill in the
blanks and normally I like to use 64x 64
because the quality of the generation is
high
but it can be quite useful if you just
want to extend something like this to
just uh uh use the custom size and just
do everything at
once once I'm happy with my floor I'm
going to just add
some
extra floor
underneath just to make it a bit more uh
side scroller
feeling sometimes you won't get the
generation that you think is the best
then you can try again and try again
until you get it
right here I'm thinking I want to create
a
house so I'm going to do is I'm going to
in
paint where I want the house to
be uh you might want to use a init image
if you want something in particular or
like a in a certain shape but usually it
works quite well here you can see I uh
select a bit of the ground as well so
the model gets an idea of uh the color
palette that is used in the
image and just for fun I'm thinking I
want to extend this house with a market
next to it first I want to try just 64x
64 and um see how that goes what I
noticed after my generation was that
because the model didn't see much of the
image it had like um a colar that wasn't
really fitting for the style so in my
next attempt here I use a bit more of
the house in my generation and I feel
like that helped improve the results a
bit and then I did some small edits just
to make it look better together because
the model can't see what's underneath
the in painting so it removes some of
the house so then I had to go in there
and fix it but thankfully the new um the
market was generated into a new layer so
it's very easy to just fix it now I'm
thinking let's create a
waterfall so what when creating a
waterfall I
recommend using a a init image
and then color in where you want the
waterfall to
be and use a pretty high init image
strength you might need to um try some
different ones and see what you feel
works
best a fun little hack I have learned is
that you can uh decrease canvas size
without losing any information so after
you're done you can increase it back and
it will look the same so here I want to
try the animation tool and see how it
can animate
waterfalls what's good to remember is
you want to use init images just to help
the
model know uh what the waterfall should
look like and don't forget to
inpaint uh the waterfall or what you
want to change you will notice that I
accidentally inpainted uh a bit bit of
the mountain as well so it accidentally
changed a bit in the generation so I had
to go back and fix it but once you're
happy with your animation you can
increase the size back again and yeah
this is the
results while editing I noticed I
accidentally inpainted the waterfall so
here's an example what it would look
like if you didn't in paint the
waterfall and let the model see the
first uh frame of the waterfall
animation we are currently having a free
trial for two of our tools so if you're
interested you can go to our website and
I will link it down in the description I
hope you enjoyed the video and I will
see you next
time